DOCS-2403, DOCS-2624, and DOCS-2622 Synthetics CI/CD Integrations Content Updates (#12360)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/cicd_integrations/configuration.md

---
title: CI/CD Integrations Configuration
kind: documentation
description: Configure Synthetics to run test in your CI/CD pipelines
further_reading:
- link: "/synthetics/cicd_integrations"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Synthetics and CI/CD"
- link: "/synthetics/ci_results_explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about the CI Results Explorer"
- link: "/synthetics/testing_tunnel"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about the Testing Tunnel"
---

## Overview

Use the `@datadog-ci` NPM package to run Synthetic tests directly within your CI/CD pipeline. You can automatically halt a build, block a deployment, and roll back a deployment when a Synthetics test detects a regression. 

> You can configure on which URL your test starts by providing a `startUrl` to your test object and build your own starting URL using any part of your test's original starting URL and the following environment variables:

Reviewer: Do we want to include this section in the Overview? Or do we want to highlight here `You can customize the Synthetic test configuration to suit your needs within your CI/CD pipeline, check out the configuration options available below`?

The package is published under [@datadog/datadog-ci][1] in the NPM registry.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "NPM" %}}

Install the package through NPM:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @datadog/datadog-ci
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Yarn" %}}

Install the package through Yarn:

```bash
yarn add --dev @datadog/datadog-ci
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Setup a client

To setup your client, Datadog API and application keys need to be configured. These keys can be defined in three different ways:

1. As environment variables:

    ```bash
    export DATADOG_API_KEY="<API_KEY>"
    export DATADOG_APP_KEY="<APPLICATION_KEY>"
    ```

2. Passed to the CLI when running your tests:

    ```bash
    datadog-ci synthetics run-tests --apiKey "<API_KEY>" --appKey "<APPLICATION_KEY>"
    ```

3. Or defined in a global configuration file:

     The global JSON configuration file can specify additional advanced options. Specify the path to this file using the flag `--config` [when launching your tests](#run-tests). If you set the name of your global configuration file to `datadog-ci.json`, that name is the default.

In the global configuration file, you can configure the following options: 

> `apiKey`

Reviewer: We need to add the following options:

```
`tunnel`: Use the [secure tunnel][4] to execute your test batch.
`testSearchQuery`: Pass a query to select which Synthetic tests to run. Use the `-s` flag if running in the CLI.
```

For example: 

{{< code-block lang="json" filename="Global Configuration File" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}
{
    "apiKey": "<DATADOG_API_KEY>",
    "appKey": "<DATADOG_APPLICATION_KEY>",
    "datadogSite": "datadoghq.com",
    "files": "{,!(node_modules)/**/}*.synthetics.json",
    "global": {
        "allowInsecureCertificates": true,
        "basicAuth": { "username": "test", "password": "test" },
        "body": "{\"fakeContent\":true}",
        "bodyType": "application/json",
        "cookies": "name1=value1;name2=value2;",
        "deviceIds": ["laptop_large"],
        "followRedirects": true,
        "headers": { "<NEW_HEADER>": "<NEW_VALUE>" },
            "locations": ["aws:us-west-1"],
        "retry": { "count": 2, "interval": 300 },
        "executionRule": "blocking",
        "startUrl": "{{URL}}?static_hash={{STATIC_HASH}}",
        "variables": { "titleVariable": "new value" },
        "pollingTimeout": 180000
    },
    "proxy": {
      "auth": {
        "username": "login",
        "password": "pwd"
      },
      "host": "127.0.0.1",
      "port": 3128,
      "protocol": "http"
    },

>     "subdomain": "subdomainname"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "subdomain": "subdomainname",
    "tunnel": true,
```

`DOMAIN`
: Test's domain name<br>
**Example**: `example.org`

`HASH`
: Test's hash<br>
**Example**: `#target`

`HOST`
: Test's host<br>
**Example**: `www.example.org:81`

`HOSTNAME`
: Test's hostname<br>
**Example**: `www.example.org`

`ORIGIN`
: Test's origin<br>
**Example**: `https://www.example.org:81`

`PARAMS`
: Test's query parameters<br>
**Example**: `?abc=123`

`PATHNAME`
: Test's URl path<br>
**Example**: `/path/to/something`

`PORT`
: Test's host port<br>
**Example**: `81`

`PROTOCOL`
: Test's protocol<br>
**Example**: `https:`

`SUBDOMAIN`
: Test's sub domain<br>
**Example**: `www`

Whether you use Synthetic tests to control your CI/CD deployments in production or staging, you can run Synthetic tests against a generated staging URL instead of in production by setting local environment variables in your test's starting URL. 

To trigger an existing Synthetics test on a staging endpoint instead of in production, set the `$SUBDOMAIN` environment variable to `staging-example` and the `$PORT` environment variable to a port used for staging. Your Synthetic tests run against the generated staging URL instead of running in production. 

> For example, you can write `https://www.example.org:81/path/to/something?abc=123#target` as:

Author: We preface this sentence with "for example"—hopefully users don't try to use it 😛

### Run tests

You can decide to have the CLI auto-discover all your `**/*.synthetics.json` Synthetic tests (or all the tests associated to the path specified in your [global configuration file](#setup-a-client)) or to specify the tests you want to run using the `-p,--public-id` flag.

Run tests by executing the CLI:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Yarn" %}}

```bash
yarn datadog-ci synthetics run-tests
```

**Note**: If you are launching your tests with a custom global configuration file, append your command with `--config <PATH_TO_GLOBAL_CONFIG_FILE`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "NPM" %}}

Add the following to your `package.json`:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "datadog-ci-synthetics": "datadog-ci synthetics run-tests"
  }
}
```

Then, run:

```bash
npm run datadog-ci-synthetics
```

**Note**: If you are launching your tests with a custom global configuration file, append the command associated to your `datadog-ci-synthetics` script with `--config <PATH_TO_GLOBAL_CONFIG_FILE`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Use the testing tunnel

> The [@datadog/datadog-ci][1] NPM package also comes with a tunnel functionality, allowing you to trigger Synthetic tests on your internal applications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [@datadog/datadog-ci][1] NPM package also comes with secure tunnelling functionality, allowing you to trigger Synthetic tests on your internal applications. 
```
Thoughts?

Author: ```suggestion
The [@datadog/datadog-ci][1] NPM package also comes with secure tunnelling, allowing you to trigger Synthetic tests on your internal applications. 
```

The testing tunnel creates an end-to-end encrypted HTTP proxy between your infrastructure and Datadog that allows all test requests sent through the CLI to be automatically routed through the `datadog-ci` client. 

> This allows Datadog to run tests on your internal applications. For more information, see [Testing Tunnel][4].

Reviewer: We're repeating ourselves here with the first sentence, any alternatives we could use? Or just shorten it to `For more information, see [Testing Tunnel][4].`?

---
title: CI/CD Integrations Configuration
kind: documentation
description: Configure Synthetics to run test in your CI/CD pipelines
further_reading:
- link: "/synthetics/cicd_integrations"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Synthetics and CI/CD"
- link: "/synthetics/ci_results_explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about the CI Results Explorer"
- link: "/synthetics/testing_tunnel"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about the Testing Tunnel"
---

## Overview

Use the `@datadog-ci` NPM package to run Synthetic tests directly within your CI/CD pipeline. You can automatically halt a build, block a deployment, and roll back a deployment when a Synthetics test detects a regression. 

> You can configure on which URL your test starts by providing a `startUrl` to your test object and build your own starting URL using any part of your test's original starting URL and the following environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provide a `startUrl` to your test object to configure which URL your test starts by. Build your own starting URL using any part of your test's original starting URL and the following environment variables:
```

`apiKey`
: The API key used to query the Datadog API.

`appKey`
: The application key used to query the Datadog API.

`datadogSite`
: The Datadog instance to which request is sent. The default is `datadoghq.com`. Your Datadog site is {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}.

`files`
: Glob pattern to detect Synthetic tests config files.

`global`
: Overrides of Synthetic tests applied to all tests ([see below for descriptions of each field](#configure-tests)).

`proxy`
: The proxy to be used for outgoing connections to Datadog. `host` and `port` keys are mandatory arguments, `protocol` key defaults to `http`. Supported values for `protocol` key are `http`, `https`, `socks`, `socks4`, `socks4a`, `socks5`, `socks5h`, `pac+data`, `pac+file`, `pac+ftp`, `pac+http`, `pac+https`. The library used to configure the proxy is the [proxy-agent][2] library.

`subdomain`
: The name of the custom subdomain set to access your Datadog application. If the URL used to access Datadog is `myorg.datadoghq.com`, the `subdomain` value then needs to be set to `myorg`.

`tunnel`
: Use the [secure tunnel][3] to execute your test batch.

`testSearchQuery`

> : Passes a query to select which Synthetic tests to run. If you are running tests in the CLI, use the `-s` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Pass a query to select which Synthetic tests to run. If you are running tests in the CLI, use the `-s` flag.
```
